---
title: Submitting content to the lab
---

The Lab operates using [issues in this GitHub
repo](https://github.com/18F/writing-lab/issues). Authors submit an
issue, and then Lab members self-assign and begin working on the
content. Lab members make edits and specific comments in Google Docs,
and they discuss larger questions in comments on the GitHub issue.
Whenever possible, Lab members try to pick up and close issues within a
week.

Below are some guidelines for submitting a stellar issue. Following them
will help keep the Lab efficient and ensure that we handle your request
quickly.

### Writing a good issue title

The best issue titles have three elements, in this order: team, content
type, content name.

For example:

>Talent - Performance Profile - Front end dev
>
>Accessibility - Guide - Images section

Since this is all internal, feel free to use common shortening and
abbreviations in your titles. Having this information helps members of
the Lab pick issues that are right for them. Some of the Lab members
have worked more with certain teams and are more familiar with their
content and style.

### Metadata

We ask all authors to submit a few pieces of metadata with their issue.
This metadata helps us manage the Lab, complete your issue quickly, and
maintain some analytics about the Lab’s work. We’ve created a [sample
issue](https://github.com/18F/writing-lab/issues/1) that you can use as
a template. For the **project type** and **help type** sections, you
will pick one option from the list provided. For the help section, you
should also add a corresponding tag to your issue. Here are some
guidelines to help you fill out the other sections.

**Time estimate:** Estimating the time it will take to edit a piece of
writing is often difficult, but taking a minute to make an educated
guess will help the Lab members work more efficiently.

-   Generative: 1 hour minimum for research, writing, editing, and feedback.
-   Developmental: 15 to 30 minutes for most content discussions.
-   Stylistic or copy edit help only: 15 minutes per page for non-technical writing. 30 minutes per page for technical.
-   Copy edit and feedback: For content that is rough or will likely need more than one round of editing, budget 30 minutes per page.

After you’ve got a good guess at how long you think this editing job
will take, please assign a label to your issue. The available time
labels are:

-   <15 mins

-   15–30 mins

-   30–60 mins

-   60–120 mins

-   \>120 mins

**Audience:** Having a narrowly defined audience is probably the most
important factor in having content that is easy to edit and easy to
read. Knowing who is going to read this content helps Lab editors know
what kind of tone and word choice is appropriate. Your audience should
be distinct enough to help prioritize the most important content and
exclude unnecessary information. Thus, descriptions like “general
public” and “the federal government” are too broad. You can help define
the audience and goal of your post by creating a [user
story](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_story) with this simple
format:

>As a *type of audience* , I want *to read or learn something* , so that
*some benefit is had* .

If you’re writing about a new service that 18F is offering, your user
story might be:

>“As a *Chief Information Officer*, I want *to learn about the specifics
of 18F’s new service*, so that *I can see if it will help me modernize
my agency’s technology*.”

This narrow focus will help you decide a number of things. Because your
audience is federal technologists, you can assume a certain familiarity
with government processes and terms. This allows you to go a little
deeper into government procedure and some of the nitty-gritty of how
this product works. You might also choose to use a slightly more formal
tone for this post since this could be the opening message in a
businesses conversation.

If you’re sending a staff-wide email to 18F, your user story might be:

>“As an *18F staff member*, I want *to know what our new README
guidelines are*, so that *I can make sure my repo is up to date*.”

Using this framework, you can be more informal since you’re writing to
your colleagues, and you can use jargon that is known to the 18F team.

**Deadline:** If your content has a hard deadline, please list it in the
issue.

**Bill to:** If your Lab request is for a billable project, please list
the Tock project name so that the Lab member who assists you can bill
their time to your project. Again, if this is a major project that
requires more than 10 hours of content work, please contact Russ Unger
to see if you should have a content designer assigned to your project.

If your request is for a non billable project, please also list the Tock
project name. If there is no Tock project name associated with this
piece of content, then the Lab will bill it to `writing-lab` in Tock.

What to do if your issue isn’t picked up
----------------------------------------

Lab members assign themselves to issues as they can. Each core Lab
member is cleared to spend three hours per week on the Lab, so our
ability to pick up and close issues is based on the number of issues
coming in and the workload of other projects.

If your issue isn’t assigned to someone within three days of you filing
it, please ping the team in #writing-lab or leave a comment on the
issue. If your content has a hard deadline, please note that in the
issue. Add the `urgent` label if it needs to be completed in the next
two days.

Give feedback on the Lab
------------------------

We’re always looking for ways to improve the Lab workflow, the quality
of our services, and your experience as a customer. If you have any
ideas or questions, please post them as issues in the [g-content GitHub
repo](https://github.com/18F/g-content/issues/new) or reach the team on
Slack in #writing-lab.
